Review of the Getting Started content (#404)
neo4j/docs-getting-started: modules/ROOT/pages/cypher.adoc

.Graph featuring nodes and relationships.
image::cypherintro-graph1.svg[]

==== Relationship directions

Relationships *must* always have a direction and a colon (`:`) in the beginning of it.
They can be to the right:

[source,cypher]
----
(p:Person)-[:LIKES]->(t:Technology)
----

To the left:

[source,cypher]
----
(p:Person)<-[:LIKES]-(t:Technology)
----

Or be undirected:

[source,cypher]
----
(p:Person)-[:LIKES]-(t:Technology)
----

An undirected relationship does not mean that it doesn't have a direction, but that it can be traversed in *either* direction.

When using undirected relationships in a query, Cypher retrieves the relationship with all its connected nodes, no matter the direction of their connection. This allows queries to be flexible and not force the user to know the direction of the relationships stored in the database.

Undirected relationships are particularly useful in this case, because if you write a query with the wrong direction, Cypher will not return anything.
For this reason, it is recommended to use an undirected relationship instead, so you can get any results back.

==== Relationship types

> In the previous section, you saw how nodes can be connected through a relationship, but the only information that you had there is the direction of this connection.

Reviewer: I think it's redundant. Also a bit misleading since it mentions undirected relationships, so a user may not even have the direction.

Relationship types can categorize and add meaning to a relationship, similarly to how labels group nodes.
It is recommended to name relationship types after verbs and action words to communicate how the nodes relate or connect to each other.
Also, this makes the query closer to natural language, as it can look like a sentence with a subject (node), a verb (relationship), and an object (another node).

> In the example used in this page, the relationship types are:

Reviewer: No I think it still applies, but I don't think "page" is a good alternative. You could say "In the previous example" instead maybe?

* `[:LIKES]` - communicates that Sally (a node) _likes_ graphs (another node).
* `[:IS_FRIENDS_WITH]` - communicates that Sally _is friends with_ John.
* `[:WORKS_FOR]` - communicates that Sally _works for_ Neo4j.

==== Relationship variables

In the same way as xref:cypher.adoc#_node_variables [node variables], relationship variables can also be used as a shortcut.

> Instead of writing the whole relationship type name (e.g. `[:LIKES]`) twice in the query, you can use a variable.

Reviewer: We can't assume that readers read from top to bottom. You could put a link in, if you think it helps.

Take this example:

[source,cypher]
----
MATCH (p:Person)-[r:LIKES]->[t:Technology]
RETURN p,r,t
----

> This query has variables for both the nodes with the labels `Person` and `Technology`, and the relationship `:LIKES`.

Author: Hmm I think it's good to keep the name of the labels for quicker association, maybe something like this?

```suggestion
This query specifies variables for both the node labels (`p` for `Person` and `t` for `Technology`) and the relationship type (`r` for `:LIKES`).
```

This would be your result:

.Result for the example query using node and relationship variables.
image::cypherintro-variables.svg[]

.Result
[role="queryresult",options="header,footer",cols="3*<m"]
|===
| p | r | t

| (:Person) | [:LIKES]  | (:Technology)

3+d|Rows: 1
|===

Remember to always use a colon in front of a relationship type.
If you happen to forget it, and write the query like this:

[source,cypher]
----
(Person)-[LIKES]->(Technology)
----

`[LIKES]` will represent a relationship *variable*, not a relationship *type*.
In this case, since no relationship type is declared, Cypher will search for all types of relationships in order to retrieve a result to your query.

[#cypher-properties]
=== Properties

Properties are name-value pairs that provide additional details to nodes and relationships.
In Cypher, they are represented with curly braces within the parentheses of a node or the brackets of a relationship:

.Graph example with node and relationship properties.
image::cypherintro-properties.svg[]

[source,cypher]
----
(Person {name: 'Sally'})-[:IS_FRIENDS_WITH {since:'2018'}]->(Person {name: 'John'})
----

Properties can have values with a variety of data types.

> You can see the full list of values and types in the link:https://neo4j.com/docs/cypher-manual/current/values-and-types/[Cypher documentation].

Reviewer: I agree, but we are not doing away with the syntax for inter-manual linking. Maybe [Cypher documentation -> Values and types]?

[#cypher-patterns]
=== Patterns in Cypher

As mentioned before, Cypher is heavily based on patterns and it is designed to recognize them in data.
For example:

[source, cypher]
----
(p:Person {name: "Sally"})-[rel:LIKES]->(g:Technology {type: "Graphs"})
----

This bit of Cypher represents a pattern, but it is not a query.
It only expresses that `Person` node with _Sally_ as its `name` property has a `:LIKES` relationship with the `Technology` node with _Graphs_ as its `type` property.

In order to *do* something with this pattern, for example, adding it to the graph or retrieving it in case it already exists, you need to *query* the database.

== Keep learning

Now that the basic Cypher concepts were introduced, you can follow the tutorial on how to xref:tutorials/cypher-basics.adoc[Get started with Cypher] for a more hands-on approach.

> In the complete link:{docs-home}/cypher-manual[Cypher documentation], you will also find more information on:

Reviewer: My point was more that if we call it "Cypher documentation" here, it's awkward that it leads to a doc that is not called that. So we may as well rename the Cypher manual. But until then, I think it makes most sense to use the same name on both sides.
